Welcome to iPhone for Mac Developers.
My name's Corbin Dunn.
I'm a Cocoa software engineer,
and I work on the Cocoa team.
Specifically, I work on the Cocoa user
interface framework,
some of the UI elements,
and I've also had the opportunity
to work on the iPhone,
work on UIKit.
So iPhone for Mac developers,
this talk is geared towards the
Cocoa AppKit Mac developers.
And we expect you to have a
basic understanding of Cocoa.
And what that means is we
hope you're familiar with
the basics like Innes arrays,
CFArrays, Innes dictionary, Innes string,
et cetera.
You understand our AppKit design
paradigms so you know what
Model View Controller is.
You know how to work
with the responder chain.
You understand our common AppKit names,
behaviors, and the way we do things.
You're also familiar with Innes
views and how to do drawing.
And you probably are familiar with
hooking up target actions of controls.
In addition,
you probably have some experience
with tables and working with cells.
So what are we going to do in this talk?
What are our goals and expectations?
Well, if you don't know by now,
the iPhone counterpart
to AppKit is UIKit.
And we're hoping that you can take
your existing AppKit and Cocoa skills
and migrate them over to the iPhone.
What we're going to do is we're going
to cover a lot of classes that are
very similar to what's in AppKit.
We're going to compare and
contrast them and in particular
highlight differences so you know
what to do and what not to do.
Things that we aren't going to do,
we aren't going to cover any new classes
that are very specific to the iPhone.
Overall, what we're going to cover, well,
first, we're going to talk a little bit
about application architecture.
Second,
we're going to talk about drawing.
Third,
we're going to cover views and controls.
And fourth, we're going to cover events.
So let's get right into it and talk
about application architecture.
Inside here,
we'll cover application design and
see how to actually develop your
applications and lay them out.
We'll talk a little about
controllers and the class hierarchy.
And then we'll move on and do a quick
demo inside of Xcode and Airface Builder
to see how it all works together.
Let's jump right in
with application design.
Let's take a look at the architecture
of the Mac and the iPhone.
You should already hopefully
be familiar with this.
So at the bottom level there,
you have the core operating system.
On top of that,
the core services like core foundation,
CF network, address book,
and other core frameworks.
On top of that,
we have our media frameworks.
Things like OpenGL, Core Animation,
Quartz Core,
and all the core graphics stuff.
If you're building your Mac applications,
you'll be using Cocoa.
And that consists of
AppKit and Foundation.
And the iPhone counterpart
is Cocoa Touch,
which is UIKit and Foundation.
So the iPhone operating system is very
similar to the Mac operating system.
And what we did is we took all
the modern parts of the Leopard
64-bit operating system and just
brought them over to the iPhone.
So we have things like exceptions.
They're fully C++ compatible,
just like they are on 64-bit on the Mac.
But you need to keep in mind that
throwing exceptions still has a cost,
and you should be aware of that.
Of course, the iPhone doesn't actually
have a 64-bit processor.
We have full Objective-C 2.0 support,
so the iPhone takes advantage
of the app property syntax.
And if you look at the UI kit headers,
you'll see app property used throughout.
takes advantage of 4N
and fast enumeration.
We also use optional
for formal protocols.
So you see all our delegate and data
source methods using formal protocols
with add optional or at required methods.
One other note, garbage collection is not
available on the iPhone.
So let's talk a little bit
about application design.
You're going to design your iPhone
applications in ways that are
also very similar to what you're
doing on the Mac operating system.
You're gonna basically use nibs,
layout your application,
gonna hook up your target
actions inside of it.
You're gonna add controllers in the nib,
and you're gonna design it that way.
Let's look at an example of how
you would be doing it on the Mac.
So you have something like your main nib.
[Transcript missing]
Now, you're probably using
NS document-based applications and
have a document for each window.
You could have one document,
you could have two documents,
you could have a multiple
layer of documents.
Let's take a quick look at one of them.
Your document may or may not
be using an NSWindowController.
Behind the scenes, it really is using it.
And the WindowController is the
thing that references the window nib,
which in turn contains the window itself.
Inside of Leopard we introduced
NSViewController which allows
you to easily manage a view
nib of loading it and whatnot.
And that references the view.
It's optional to use a view controller.
You may have other ways
of loading your views.
Inside of the view itself,
you'll probably hook up things
using target action and you'll
probably have bindings that
actually does a lot of your UI work.
: The iPhone application architecture.
So what does that look like?
You have a main nib,
just like you're used to.
Do you have a main menu?
Well, the answer is no,
because there aren't menus on the iPhone.
Do you have an NS application?
Well, yes, but it's a UI application,
because the UI kit framework
uses the UI prefix.
You also will have an application
controller just like you normally would,
and it will probably also be
the delegate to the application.
But a key difference,
you probably will have a single
window referenced in the main nib.
This is the main window
for your application.
Unlike the desktop where you
would have multiple windows,
your iPhone application will
probably have one window,
and you will place the screenfuls
of content using different views.
In addition,
the application controller will
probably reference that window itself.
Do you have an NS document
inside the iPhone?
Well, the answer is no.
You really don't have document-based
applications on the iPhone.
You're working with
smaller subsets of data.
Do you have an NS window controller?
Well, again, the answer is no,
because you generally
only have one window,
so it's not really needed.
Do you have an NS view controller?
The answer is yes,
and it plays an important
role on the iPhone.
And, of course,
it's a UI view controller.
So the view controller will
be hooked up to a view nib,
which will then contain your view.
Your view will have
typical target action,
just like you're familiar with,
but you actually don't have bindings.
And even though we don't have bindings,
we found that we haven't
really missed them,
because you're working with
a smaller screen of data.
Even though it's not there,
you do have KVO, key value observing,
and KVC, key value coding,
available for you.
So you may have one view
controller controlling a view,
and you may have another one and
another one to replace that screen
of content that you're seeing.
Let's dive into it a little bit more
to really understand how it works.
So here's a sample
application screenshot.
Your application controller will
probably reference the window itself.
You'll probably have a main view
controller that controls the
main view that you're seeing.
So that view controller
will control that main view.
The main view itself will
have other sub views.
So we just covered a little bit
about application design and
briefly touched on controllers.
Let's talk a little bit
more about controllers,
view controllers, and a little bit about
the class hierarchy.
So view controllers inside of UIKit.
Another difference inside of
UIKit is that we have lots of
subclasses of UIViewController that
provides a lot of canned code for
you to instantly and quickly use.
There's things like a
UINavigationController,
which we'll quickly show in a moment,
a TableViewController,
PickerViewController, TabBar, et cetera.
There's more of these,
and we highly recommend
you check into them.
Some special
UIKit differences from AppKit.
Well, UIViewController does not
manage the top level objects.
So what does this mean?
If you have top level
objects in your nib,
you are required to release them.
This is an important
difference from the desktop.
For more information on view controllers,
I recommend going on and
seeing Understanding iPhone
View Controllers later today at 2 p.m.
Let's take a quick look at one
commonly used view controller,
the UI navigation controller.
So the navigation controller
would be hooked up where,
again, you have your main
application controller.
It's going to reference
your main view controller.
In this case,
it's the UI navigation controller.
And that's going to manage
that main view here.
In addition, it's going to manage that
UI navigation bar you see at the top.
And that adds things like
the forward and back buttons.
And the way it does it is you have
your sub view controller inside of it.
In this case,
it's using a table view controller
to manage that table you see there.
And what you can do with the navigation
controller is it works like a stack.
You can stack other view
controllers and other views onto it.
So you can push another table
view controller onto the stack and
have it show and replace it with
another table view controller.
that content easily.
Let's talk a little bit about AppKit and
how you work with modal windows.
So AppKit has modal run loops,
which you're probably familiar with.
You can easily do them by doing
NS application run modal for window,
and you'd have your base
window relative to it,
and you'd show another one modally.
So how do you do this in UIKit?
Because you don't have multiple windows.
You really only have one main window.
Well, the UI view controller is there
to allow you to do modal views.
So take a look at this screenshot.
Let's say you want to hit one of
those buttons and have an image picker
come up over it modally so the user
can't interact with anything else.
And what you would do to have
that other one slide up above it
You create your new
controller you want to show.
In this case, it's another example of a
pre-canned one that we provide,
the UI image picker controller.
So we allocate it.
The main controller,
which was the first one you saw,
calls present modal view
controller animated.
And that will actually slide
up the other one with the view
in relation to it modally.
Very easy to do.
General application design tips.
Awake from Nib.
Well,
since you're using view controllers,
you probably want to use view
to load over awake from Nib.
And the reason for that is that
UI view controller does more things
for you than you would expect.
For example,
you might have other views that
you aren't seeing on screen anymore
and the view controller may release
the views for memory reasons.
So it may reload them at a later time.
Subsequently, you might get awake
from Nib more than once.
To deal with that problem,
we recommend using view to load to set up
the view each time the view is actually
loaded instead of using awake from Nib.
In addition, if you have one-time setup
for your application,
you probably want to use
application did finish launching
instead of awake from nib.
This is similar in AppKit where
it's preferred to use that.
It's good for performance reasons.
One other important difference,
the file's owner will
not get a wake from nib.
It's a huge difference from inside of
AppKit and something to be aware of.
Auto release,
we recommend following the best
practices for AppKit and not really
overusing auto release to fill up
the auto release pools too much.
The C++ conceptions,
as we briefly touched on them before,
although they are C++ compatible,
they really only should be used
to indicate any programming errors
that you have in your code and
they not should be used for any
flow control or anything else.
Let's take a quick look at
the AppKit class hierarchy.
This is a small subset of it.
You're probably familiar with
you have NSObject up at the top.
You have a responder beneath it.
You have your views, your windows,
and your view controllers.
You have controls, tables, buttons,
scroll views.
comparing it to a subset of
the UI kit class hierarchy.
Well, NSObject is still the
parent for everything.
You do have a UI responder,
just like you have an app kit,
and you do have the UI view.
You have a UI view controller.
Some important differences,
the window actually
descends from the view.
So the window's a full-fledged
view and not just a responder.
We'll discuss this a
little bit more later.
Another subtle difference,
the table view descends
directly from the scroll view.
So the table view is no longer a
subset or a subclass of UI control.
Instead,
it subclasses the scroll view itself.
We'll talk about that a
little bit more later too.
So we just covered some view
controllers and some class hierarchy.
Let's take a quick demo and see how
this all fits together inside of Xcode.
Inside of Xcode here,
I'm going to go ahead
and create a new project,
just a regular view-based application.
And we're going to call it My App.
So some things that are done by
default for you is you'll see
there's an application delegate
automatically created for you.
There is a UI view controller subclass
that is automatically created for you.
And then there's two nibs,
or actually zibs,
which will get compiled to nibs.
First of all,
you have your main window one,
which you're familiar with.
And then you have one
for your view controller.
If we take a look at the main window nib,
we can see inside of it that we have--
Our app view controller
is one instance in here.
And we also have the main
window that we're referencing.
If we go back to Xcode and open
up the View Controller nib,
We can see we have our single view where
we can actually start adding content.
So let's go ahead and just
add a button down here.
And just quickly show how
easy it is to hook things up.
We can go back inside of Xcode and
add some code to the view controller.
So if we want to hook up
a typical target action,
it's very easy to do.
You're familiar with your IB action
signature where it's the method name and
then the first parameter is the sender.
But inside of UIKit,
we went a little further
than what AppKit did,
and we allow you to optionally
have the sender parameter.
So you could have button touch
up inside without the sender.
And we took it another step further,
and we also allow you to have the
event to be passed along with it.
So I'm going to go ahead and quickly
: Go to the implementation.
And I'm going to skip over some of
the code that we create by default
for you to allow it to fill in more
information for your application.
And I'm going to quickly add an
implementation for each of these actions.
And what it's going to do here is
it's going to create a UI alert view.
So UI alert view is just very
similar to NS alert on AppKit.
It allows you to create
an alert with a title,
a message, and some buttons.
So we're just going to
have an okay button.
Now if I go back over
to Interface Builder,
we can easily hook up this button
is going to be our view controller.
You can see here it's tiny font.
The My App view controller
is the actual files owner.
If we click on the button and
select the button connections,
a key difference here is instead
of having one target action,
we have multiple potential events.
So multiple potential actions that
you can hook up for a given button.
Things like touch down,
touch down repeat, touch drag,
touch drag inside, outside.
So we can just go ahead and drag
from the touch up inside over
to our files owner and let go.
And we can see that we have the three
different method signatures we had.
But we can also have multiple
different targets that you can have.
So I can repeat this action and hook
it up again to the other methods.
And I can repeat it again.
And if we take a look at it in
the button connections here,
we see that in very tiny font,
you have three different hookups
for each of the target actions.
So I should be able to go
back in the X code and compile
and run the application.
And we'll start in the simulator.
I can click on Hello World,
and it will throw up
three different alerts,
one after another.
And the way the user interface
works is that you click one,
and the others then pop back up.
This is a quick and easy way to see
how an application is built and works.
OK, let's go back to slides.
So that was a quick
demo of the application
architecture and how it works.
Let's move on to drawing.
So what are we going to cover in drawing?
Well, first of all,
we're going to talk a little
bit about core animation.
We're going to talk about drawing,
actually, and some views.
And then we're going
to discuss animations.
So let's jump right into it and
start talking about core animation.
How does Core Animation work
with NSViews inside of AppKit?
Well, NSView optionally allows a
Core Animation layer to back it.
and you have to opt into it.
So in other words, you have to do view,
set wants layer, yes,
to get a layer backing for your view.
The layer can also be directly set,
and there's a method, viewSetLayer,
to custom set a layer.
So you may have a CALayer subclass
that does some custom stuff you want,
and you want to interact with the
view and be the view's contents,
so you call viewSetLayer to do that.
You can also take that views layer and
add custom sub layers to it and work
with the layer hierarchy directly and not
the NS view hierarchy if so you choose.
So how does this work with
UIView inside of UIKit?
Well, UIView always has a core animation
CA layer for every view you see.
In essence, you can think of the view's
contents as the actual layer.
So if you take a look at
this little screenshot here,
this is a UI image view.
And you can sort of think of it as the
CA layer is kind of backing the view.
It's always there,
and it is the contents for the view.
So a little bit more about UIView and
how it interacts with the CAA layer.
Well, the layer property is read only,
which is different from MapKit,
which then begs the question of, well,
how do you actually customize it?
And the way you do that is
you would subclass UIView and
override the class method,
layer class, to provide your custom
layer class subclass.
Some interesting notes.
Well, the UI view is always
the CA layers delegate.
You probably don't want to change that.
That will mess up things like drawing.
But you can also take advantage
of it and subclasses can
optionally implement CA layer
delegate methods if they need to.
Another note is layer properties
are directly reflected in the view.
So if you change something like
the frame on the actual view,
it's actually changing the frame
in the layer itself and vice versa.
Other properties that do this
are like the background color.
just like in AppKit,
you can go ahead and directly
add CA layers to the sublayer of
the layer itself and not interact
with the UI view hierarchy,
if so you choose.
Some notes about UIView
and the frame and bounds.
Well, the origin for the view
is always the top left.
So if you look at this
little screenshot of Safari,
the origin of the web view
is always that top left.
What's that mean?
Well,
UIView doesn't have an isFlip property.
But a special warning,
if you create a custom
CG context for some reason,
the origin is still the bottom left,
which is the same on the desktop if
you're creating a custom CG context.
CG geometry and UI kit.
What does this mean?
UI kit went ahead and did what
core animation did by exposing
core graphics geometric types.
In English that basically means that
we use CG rect instead of NS rect.
We use CG point instead of NS point.
But then how do you convert these
to common things like strings?
We provide a custom header, uigeometry.h,
that allows you to convert
those things to common other
types like NSString from C.
There's a category on NS value
and NSCoder to encode and read
the values for CG geometric types.
Speaking of which,
so here's a quick coding tip.
UIKit is designed to work well
with Xcode code completion.
Now what does this mean?
We took the time to make
sure that all enums,
function names,
and classes share a common
prefix when it's necessary.
For example,
in that last little bit that we saw,
if you type in a string
from and type escape,
then you're going to see all the
things that start with that prefix.
So it's very easy to not have to remember
a bunch of methods and names and just
instead remember a common prefix.
So you type in a string from,
see a huge list,
arrow down to what you want,
and hit enter.
And you get in your code.
Very fast and easy.
So we just discussed Core Animation.
Let's talk a little bit
more about drawing and views
and how they work together.
First, a little history on how
it works with AppKit.
In AppKit, if you call set needs display,
it's going to redraw all the contents
from that region that needs to
display and everything below it.
In this images,
you can actually lock focus on
this image and draw into it.
Overlapping sibling views are
okay on Leopard and higher.
Now inside of UIKit with UIView.
Well, UIKit caches the resulting
image from DrawRect.
Overlapping sibling views are also okay.
And similar in AppKit,
you would use ordering to basically
have one be appearing in front
of another if they are siblings.
All the views,
since the UI kit is caching
the image from DrawRect,
where actual core animation is,
the views are composited together
in the end to generate the
final image you see on screen.
And I'll discuss a little
bit more on this in a bit.
A little bit more on drawing.
Well, drawing is available on UIKit with
familiar classes that you're
probably already going to easily be
able to move over and start using.
UI image is there,
and it's a very lightweight
and immutable object.
Simple things to draw the
image like draw at point.
Now, it's immutable,
so you can't actually lock
focus and draw into it.
We do have methods and ways of
creating a bitmap image context
to draw into an image context.
And I recommend reading the
documentation or contacting
us later for more information.
UI string drawing,
we have to have a way of drawing strings.
There's a special category on
strings I like to do common
string drawing operations.
How do you specify
what font to draw with?
We have a UI font object,
probably just what you would expect.
There's a UIGraphics.h which
does simple graphic things like
UIRECTFILL and UIRECFRAME and whatnot.
So UIView and redrawing.
Requesting a parent or an overlapping
sibling will not redisplay the children.
says, "The reverse is also true.
Redrawing a non-opaque child
will not redraw the parent." Now,
both those statements
are a little confusing.
So here's an example screenshot.
If you're going to
redraw that button there,
like if you want the background
color to be something else,
any call set needs a splant to redraw it.
That will not redraw that
label view that's on it.
The label view already has
its contents drawn and cached,
and there's no need for it to redraw.
So that begs the question of
core animation and redrawing
and how does it actually work?
So you have that view there,
that basic button cell,
and it was the view that's redrawn.
So what happens is that view's contents,
which was redrawn, is taken and added to
the other two subviews,
which weren't redrawn,
and they're composited together
to generate a final result.
It's very simple.
drawing and performance.
Well, first of all,
I have to explain what
does expensive mean.
And expensive means it takes more time,
uses more CPU, uses more battery life,
et cetera.
Overriding draw rect isn't
necessarily needed in all cases.
If you take a regular UI view,
you can use it for a container as
something to hold other views and
place them where you need them.
And by not overriding draw rect,
we have special optimizations
we did in UIKit to make it very
fast to have such a view exist.
So it's very cheap to have a plain
view and something to be aware of.
It's also very cheap to set the
background color because doing
a solid fill is very simplistic.
Now, non-opaque views are expensive.
So if you have a view which has something
that looks partially transparent,
it's going to be an expensive view.
So if your view looks opaque,
you should strive to make it be opaque.
So if you have a label which
is on a white background,
don't make the label have
a transparent background.
Instead, make it actually have a white
background color and be opaque
for performance reasons.
Of course,
if you have an alpha value that's less
than 1.0 and you really need that,
well,
it has to be non-opaque and therefore it
has to be a little bit more expensive.
For more information,
I highly recommend attending Optimizing
Performance in iPhone Applications
in Presidio Thursday at 3.30 p.m.
So we just took a second to
discuss drawing and views.
Now let's take a little bit of
time to talk about animations.
How do you do animations
inside of AppKit?
Well, NSView implements
NSAnimatablePropertyContainer
to do animations.
And this is something new to Leopard.
There's an animator proxy object
which is used to animate properties.
The animations can optionally
be done by core animation if
you're using CLA or back views.
In addition,
there's a NSAnimationContext that
allows you to do things like control
the grouping and the duration.
So here's a little code snippet,
which you may or may not be familiar
with because it's a new Leopard feature.
You do NSAnimationContext,
begin a grouping,
grab that current context,
set some properties like the duration,
here it's setting it to two seconds,
and then you're going to set
the frame to be some new frame
using the animator proxy object.
So the view.animator.frame
is set to a new frame.
And after the two seconds,
the animation would complete.
So something as simple as
animating a button is really to do.
UI view and animations.
So UI view essentially has a
mode that -- or a way of putting
it into an animation mode.
And once you change any
animatable property,
it will automatically
be animated for you.
You don't actually have to go through
an animator proxy call to do it.
So here's some example code.
UI view begin animations.
And the begin animations actually takes
a parameter that lets you identify
the animation for later reasons.
And an optional context
so you can refer to it.
And the reason it does this is there are
other things behind the scenes you can
set to receive when the animation has
ended and do certain other operations
like chaining animations together.
There's another class method,
set animation duration,
and there's other ones to control
other animation things like the curves.
Here it sets it for two seconds.
Then you just set the property.
So the view.frame is
set to the new frame.
And in this case,
if you're doing that for the button,
the button will go ahead
and animate in two seconds.
Very simple and easy to do.
So some tips and tricks
for doing animations.
Well, UIView is going to always
use core animation.
UIView animates by not calling drawrect
along each step of the animation.
So instead,
it's just taking the views where it has
the cache contents and recompositing
them again and again as needed to
generate the animation on screen.
Animating in this way is very fast.
Animating using drawrect and
drawrect in each call is very slow.
So some special considerations
that you have to take when
you're doing animations.
If they're changing the frame size,
then the contents of the frame may need
to stretch or grow or potentially redraw.
And we have a UI view
content mode property,
which I recommend looking up
in the documentation for more
information on how to control that.
In addition, session 446,
how do I do that?
Tips and tricks for iPhone
application development.
And Friday at 1030,
we'll cover more about doing animations.
inside of UIKit.
So views and controls.
We just finished talking about drawing.
And now let's move on to talking
about some views and controls.
First,
we're going to discuss some common views.
Then we're going to talk a
little bit about scroll views.
And finally, we're going to talk a
bit about table views.
Let's jump right into it and start
talking about some common views.
So some common views and controls in
AppKit and the counterparts for UIKit.
We have buttons, sliders, text fields,
search fields, the UI search field,
or sorry, it's a UI search bar instead
of a UI search field.
So sometimes the names of
things change a little bit.
You have progress indicators.
Now in AppKit, a progress indicator has
two different styles.
It has the bar style
and the spinny style.
The spinny style inside of UIKit is
a special subclass called the
UI activity in the care of you.
The NS button inside of
App Kit has a checkbox style.
Inside of UI Kit,
we don't have checkboxes,
but we do have UI switches
that let you do that on and off
mode and work like a checkbox.
NSDatePicker, well,
the NSDatePicker looks different
inside UIKit as the UIDatePicker,
and it's the big swirly wheels
that you've probably seen and used.
NSPopupButton, there aren't any popup
buttons on the iPhone.
Instead, you can use the UIPickerView to
do a popup type of style control.
The PickerView also lets you
do more things instead of just
picking one item from the list.
It lets you have multiple
different columns,
so you could have one column
and another column and create
combinations of results.
So we briefly talked
about some common views.
Let's discuss scroll views.
First of all, how do scroll views
work inside of AppKit?
Here's a quick screenshot of the
bookmarks table view inside a Safari.
So the scroll view there,
let's say it has a frame of width of
400 and a height of 400 for simplicity.
It has sub views like the scroller on
the side and the header up at the top.
In addition,
it has the table view inside of it.
Now,
the table view's frame is a lot larger
than the actual scroll view's frame.
So its height is like 600,
and it would exceed the
height of what you're seeing.
So how is it clipping it?
Well, probably most of you know that
there's an NS Clip view that
actually does the clipping.
So it has its Y frame a little bit lower
because it's below the table header.
And it has a height of
400 to clip the height.
It has a bounds Y offset.
to control the origin of the
contents that you're seeing.
So how does clipping work with
a UI view inside a UI kit?
Essentially,
any UI view can become a clip view.
So here's a basic view,
this turquoise-ish rectangle view.
If you go ahead and see the
default property for clips
to bounds is set to no,
which means that if
you add two sub views,
they won't be clipped.
They can appear outside
the bounds of that view.
If you set clips to balance to be yes,
it will start clipping those other views.
So UI scroll view by default has clips
to balance set to yes to clip out
content that you don't want to see.
So taking a look at UI Scroll View.
So here's a typical one.
The frame,
let's say for simplicity's sake,
it's like a width of
200 and a height of 400.
It really wouldn't be that because
that's not the actual screen size.
Inside of it, the scroll view will have a
content size which is higher,
like 400, than what you're seeing.
The way that you control the content
offset is just like in its clip view.
You set the bounds.origin, the Y,
to something like 50 to
control what you're seeing.
And it's clipping the height
with only a height of 400.
So to make it easy to control
the offset of what you're seeing,
there's a property called the
content offset that basically
mimics that bounds.origin.
So working with a scroll view.
The way you would work with a scroll
view is you would go ahead and
directly subclass UI scroll view.
and the rest of the team
at UITableView do this.
And they go ahead and manage when the
actual content changes and do special
things like bring table cells into view.
You can go ahead and add
subviews directly to it.
One difference is you don't actually
have a document view property.
Now, when you have a scroll view,
and let's say it has a button on it,
there's a dilemma which is
not present inside of AppKit.
If you have that button and you
touch on it inside of a scroll view,
well, is it going to actually scroll
when you move your finger?
Or when you hit the
button with your finger,
is it going to track that button?
Or in other words, a UI control?
So what should it do?
It's a dilemma,
and we need a way of solving that.
The way you do this is we have a
set of APIs on UI School View to
control that behavior.
Here they are,
and I'm going to briefly talk about them.
There's delays content touches to
delay the touches to the actual view.
You can't cancel content touches,
and we'll describe a little bit
about cancellation in a bit.
There's some methods on
UI Scroll View that you can override.
Touches should begin with
an event in a content view,
and touches should
cancel in content view.
I'm not really going to cover these,
but it's important to be
aware of that dilemma.
For more information,
I recommend attending How Do I Do That?
Tips and Tricks for iPhone
Application Development,
Friday at 10:30 a.m.
So we just discussed scroll views.
Let's move on and talk a
little bit about table views.
First of all,
NS Table View compared to UI Table View.
We'll both have a data source,
both have a delegate,
both represent rows of data,
but the app kit NS Table View can
have multiple different columns,
which you're probably familiar with.
The UI Table View only allows one column,
and although it only allows one column,
you could mock up multiple columns by
adding separate sub views that make
it look like it has multiple columns.
supports sectioning data so it allows
you to have different sections of
data that you can expand and collapse.
The UI table view by default
always supports sectioning of data.
And we'll talk a little bit
more about how it works with
UI table view in a second.
Inside of App Kit, you can have multiple
selection in tables,
but inside of UI Kit,
you really only have
one selection at a time.
Selection is more of a
temporary thing on the iPhone.
So if you go ahead and
select a row and let go,
it will probably do some action
like slide another view into screen,
and then after the view goes away,
the selection will go away.
So the selection is very temporary.
Inside of AppKit, you're probably used to
using NSLs to do the drawing.
Well, inside of UIKit,
we went ahead and used UI views
to actually do the full drawing.
So what does a UI table view look like?
Here's one style which you're
probably familiar with and have seen.
It's what we call the
UI table view style plane.
It's your basic contact list
with multiple sections there.
In addition,
we provide out of the box for
you a UI table view style grouped
that allows that group style.
So it's taking the sections and
combining them together with different
little button looking like rows.
These styles can be
set in the initializer.
I'm not going to cover that.
It's easy to use.
You just allocate the table with the
particular style you're interested
in and that's the way you get it.
Some more details on how
the table is laid out.
Again, the table is broken
into multiple sections.
So you can see that the sections
could optionally have a header.
Inside of each row is
a UI table view cell.
It's a full-fledged view.
So that view can have subviews.
So by default, we provide a UI image
subview inside of it,
and you can easily set that
image by doing cell.image equals
some UI image that you load.
There's also a label subview.
So you can also easily change that label
text by doing cell.text equals some text.
Very easy to use.
Now, these views are lazily created
and added to the view hierarchy,
so you don't have to use them at all.
And if you don't use them,
there's no cost to having them there.
The table view in sections.
So you've seen that the table view
is broken into multiple sections.
So the first thing it's going
to ask the data source is,
well, how many sections do I have?
So it says data source,
number of sections in table view,
and then you would return the sections.
Now,
a common programming error is to say, oh,
I don't want any sections,
so I return zero.
Well, you should return at least one
because you always need one section.
By default, if you don't implement this,
you will get one section.
So how is a row specified?
Because you've seen that we
have rows inside of a section,
and we need a way of identifying that.
So the way we did it is we
use NSIndexPath to represent
the section and the row,
and we add a category to
make it easy to use that.
So this is the category that
UI TableView applies to NSIndexPath.
There's a simple initializer,
index path for row and section,
and there are some properties on it
to access the section and the row.
Behind the scenes,
all this is really doing is it's creating
an index path with two indexes in it.
The first index is
going to be the section,
and the next one is going to be the row.
But it's very easy to just
use the initializer and the
properties that we provided.
requires data source methods.
You're probably familiar with
NS table view and AppKit.
You have to implement
certain methods to get data.
The same is the case on the phone.
And of course, you need to know how many
rows are in a section.
So it's very simple.
Table view, number of rows in section,
and you return your row count.
Now, the cells are the next piece of
information you need to know.
So comparing the app
kit to the UI kit cells.
Well, a cell, of course,
is used for the row column inside
of app kit and NS table view.
Essentially what the NS table view
does is it takes the same cell and
it just kind of stamps it out along
each row to get the desired result.
The cell itself is not a view.
It just descends from in its object
and does the drawing for you.
Now in UIKit, it also uses cells.
And there is one cell,
in particular a UITableView cell,
for each visible row
that you see on screen.
The actual cell is a full-fledged view.
So it goes ahead and
descends from UIView.
And again, you really only have the views
for what you see on screen.
So there are not cells for what's
not on screen because that would
not be good for performance.
So that begs the question of, well,
how do you load those cells and
load them to what you see on screen?
And then what is the concept of
reusing those cells for performance?
So here's an example screenshot.
Let's say that you take your
finger and you want to go
ahead and scroll this view up.
So old cells are going to move
off screen in the gray area above.
And the new cells are going to move from
down below into that bluish area below.
Taking a look at that, well,
those top non-visible table view cells,
the table view is going to just take
them and remove them from the super view.
It's going to add them to a
reuse queue inside of itself.
Then the data source can go
and grab one of those cells,
if there's one available,
and give it back to the table view
for it to go ahead and reuse them.
So in essence, the table view data source
is what returns a cell.
This is a little different from NS table
view because the data source is the
thing that actually returns you the cell.
And it's going to either reuse one
or it's going to create another one.
takes a look at some of the
code to actually go ahead
and create it and do it.
TableView, cell for row at index path.
So again, we had spoken earlier about the
way to uniquely identify a section
and a row is with an index path.
So it's passed into you.
First, you should try and find
a cell you can reuse.
And the way you do that
is you ask the table view,
dequeue reusable cell with identifier.
So you're saying, hey,
I have this identifier
for a type of cell.
Is it already there and can I reuse it?
If it didn't because there's none there,
it might be the first time.
Then you go ahead and use UI table view,
cell alloc init with frame.
And now the initializer has an additional
parameter called the reuse identifier.
So this lets you designate
a cell with a identifier.
And then you can designate a type
of cell that you can reuse later on.
After that, you'll set common properties.
If it was a reused cell,
you'll just be redrawing
and reoverriding them.
So some key points about it, as we said,
it's a full-fledged view.
Things you probably don't want to do,
we don't want to override draw
rect on the UI table view cell.
Instead, we have those default views
that you can use with properties
that we allow you to set,
like the image and the text.
You can actually add other
subviews to it that do the
specific drawing that you want.
And something that you really
want to do for performance,
you always want to reuse cells.
Otherwise,
your scoring performance in your
application will not be good.
For more information,
I recommend attending Mastering
iPhone Table Views Friday at 9:00 AM.
And what they're going to
cover is more advanced things,
like doing the animations
to insert and delete cells,
doing the animations to show
the delete buttons on the side,
and whatnot.
So text views, fields, and labels.
Well, the iPhone has typical
text entry as you've seen.
There's a basic UI label class
to provide simple read-only text.
There's a UI text view, which is a big,
huge text area.
A UI text field to do
editable text entry.
They're all fairly easy to
use and straightforward.
And I recommend attending
text input on the iPhone,
Russian Hill, Wednesday at 5 p.m.
for more information.
is the founder of Drupal,
and he's the founder of Windows.
We just discussed views and controls.
Let's move on and talk about some events.
So first we'll discuss Windows,
then discuss respond or event handling,
and finally control event handling.
Let's jump right into it with Windows.
In both AppKit and UIKit,
all events are filtered through the
window through a send event method.
AppKit uses NSEvent, UIKit uses UIEvent.
The actual window in AppKit, again,
is just a responder inside of AppKit,
but in UIKit,
it's actually a full-fledged view.
So this means that you can
do things like add subviews,
there's a hidden property on the
view to make a window be visible,
et cetera.
Now, you've seen on the phone,
and there aren't ways to resize windows,
there is no close buttons, and hence,
there's actually no
delegate for the UI window.
In AppKit,
the main reason that we have the
delegate is for all those operations
for you to control and override.
There is a need for that inside of UIKit.
The UI window doesn't have the
concept of make key and order front.
Instead, basically the window is a view,
and you just make that view not be
hidden to make it actually be visible.
You can control the window
level to actually do ordering.
And we do have one simple method
that lets you do it all at once.
And I recommend using and
reading the UIV documentation
for information on that.
Of course, the biggest difference
in Windows is that,
well, the UI window deals with
touches instead of mouse events.
We briefly talked about Windows.
Let's go ahead and talk about
responder event handling,
particularly how to do
it inside of AppKit,
and then we'll talk about
how to do it inside of UIKit.
In AppKit, you're probably familiar
with two different ways to
do dragging event processing.
The first way we call the
three method approach.
So you would override mouse down,
probably set up some state or whatnot.
Override mouse, drag,
do some logic like drawing lines
or whatever you want to do.
And then override mouse
up to stop your logic.
There's also the mouse
tracking loop approach.
So you would override mouse down, loop,
go to NS application,
extract events that you're interested in,
and then stop looping once you do
something like process and mouse up.
That's all done within an
override of mouse down.
Something that does this
is like NS table view,
which overrides that and passes
the tracking onto the cell itself.
We don't recommend doing this
approach inside of UIKit,
and we'll discuss the proper
way to do it in just a minute.
First, we need to have a basic
understanding of what a touch is.
If you take your finger down
and put it on the phone,
you're going to get a touch began.
So the phase began.
If you move it, you're going to go ahead
and get a touch moved.
So the same touch has its phase and
location changed to being moved.
If you remove your
finger from the screen,
you're going to get a touch ended.
Now, multiple touches.
So let's say you take two
fingers and stick them down.
You're going to get two touch begans.
Overall, you have all touches of two.
If you put a third finger down, well,
those two touches,
they stay the same instance,
and they just change their
phase to be stationary.
The third touch, you get a touch began.
If you move one of those first ones,
well, it gets a touch moved and the other
stays stationary as their phase.
Then you remove all
three fingers at once,
and all at once you
get three touch-ended.
It's important to note that multi-touch
is opt-in and you have to set a
property view.multipletouchenabled
to get multiple touches.
If you don't do this and you're
confused as to why you're
not getting multiple touches,
this is the reason why.
So touches and cancellation.
Cancellation is a new thing that's on
the iPhone that you have to worry about.
Take your finger and you put it
down and you get a touch began.
You get your touch moved.
Now let's say something
like a phone call comes up.
Well, you have to get a touch canceled
to cancel that touch event.
We'll talk a little bit more about
this later and how to deal with it.
So now that we know what touches are,
how do you actually handle
events with UI Responder?
We recommend you always use
that three method approach and
implement the cancellation.
So it's really more of
a four method approach.
And the four methods are
touches began with event,
touches moved with event,
touches ended with event, and of course,
touches canceled with event.
It's passing in a set of touches
that cause that thing to happen,
and then an event that
has some more information,
which we will describe in a second.
So how is a UI event and a
UI touch represented and related?
So the UI touch is actually an instance
in a class that you interact with.
The UI event itself has a
timestamp for when it happened.
The event contains a touch.
Well, you could have multiple touches,
so it contains one or other touches.
Inside of each touch is a timestamp.
But more importantly,
there's a location and a
previous location for that touch.
An important difference from inside of
AppKit is the location is actually in
the touch and not in the event itself.
The touch also has other information
like the view that it occurred in
and the window that the view is in.
And it has a phase.
So the phase is something like began,
moved, ended, etc.
So let's take a look at one
of those methods and follow
it along just a little bit.
First of all,
touchesBegin passes in a set
of touches that actually made
that touchesBegin happen.
Inside of each touch is where
you would find the location.
The event itself has a
reference to all touches.
So of course,
all touches is going to reference those
other touches that you already got,
but there may be other
ones that were stationary,
and this is the way you
would access those ones.
Some more notes about
UI Event and UI Touch.
Well, how do you actually get
touches for a UI Event?
You can use all touches.
You can use touches for view
and some other methods which
we briefly discussed before.
The important thing is that the
UI touch contains the actual point and
you access it via location and view.
The touch instances
actually remain the same.
So they are the thing that
has their properties change,
like the location, the previous location,
and the phase.
Those things, those properties change,
but the instance does not change itself.
Another thing to note is the
responder chain is slightly different.
So what does this mean?
Well, inside of AppKit,
you can call setNextResponder
to actually change the responder
and it's saved for you.
Inside of UIKit,
there is no setter for the responder.
Instead, you would have to override
the next responder.
By default,
it just goes up the view hierarchy
chain and also works with
view controllers a little bit.
For more information on touches,
I recommend session 380,
iPhone multi-touch events and gestures,
Wednesday at 3.30 in Mission.
So we just discussed
responder event handling.
Let's move on and talk about
controls and event handling.
How do you handle events with UI control?
Well, first of all,
control tracks the first
touch and ignores the others.
Now, this is important for things
like control subclasses,
buttons,
sliders and switches and whatnot.
And if you think about it,
it makes sense.
If you take one finger
and put in a button,
then you take another finger
and put in a button and you
release that second finger,
well,
you're still holding your first finger
down and you don't want that other
finger to actually do the action.
You don't want to do the
action until your first finger
is removed from the screen.
So control is good to track the
first touch that happened and
that's what it's designed for.
So it disables multi-touch by calling
control multiple touch enabled equals no,
which is actually the
default for a UI view.
So how do you actually override
and subclass a UI control?
Well, you're probably familiar with
how to do it inside of NSLs,
and it's very similar.
There's a set of methods on
UI control that you can override.
Begin tracking with touch with event.
Continue tracking with touch with event.
End tracking with touch with event.
And of course, cancellation you also have
to consider and probably stop
whatever action you were doing.
So cancel tracking with event.
So UI control and target action.
As we already know,
you can hook up usually one target and
one action per control inside of AppKit.
But UIKit is different.
You can have multiple different targets
and multiple different actions like
we saw at the demo at the beginning.
Now, how do you represent those?
Well, there's a bit set called
UI Control Events that lets you
control the different events
you want to actually handle.
So there's ones like
UI Control Event Touchdown,
UI Control Event Touch Up Inside,
et cetera.
There's lots of these.
Also notice that they all have that
common prefix I was talking about before.
So inside of Xcode,
you could type UI Control Event,
hit escape, and see a list of all of
them that are available.
Very easy to do, and you don't have to
memorize them all the time.
all.
So now you know how to actually get
the actions and what are available.
How do you actually register a target?
Well, there's a simple method.
Add target, action, four control events.
So you can have an orbit set of
the actual control events you want
to handle with your target and the
selector you want to have called.
Again,
it's not a one-to-one relationship,
so you can call this multiple times
again and again with different
targets and different actions.
Thank you.
There are three different
signatures as we saw before.
There's one signature which
doesn't have any parameters.
A signature which has a sender
just like inside of AppKit.
And then a signature which has the sender
and the UI event that made it happen.
You get to choose.
So in summary, we talked a bit about
application architecture.
We talked a bit about views and controls.
Then we went on and talked about drawing.
And finally, we also talked about events.
For more information,
come find us in the labs,
the iPhone Controls, Views,
and Animation Lab,
the iPhone Multitouch and
Events and Gestures Lab,
the iPhone View Controllers Lab,
and get more information and
help with your applications.
For more information,
you can contact Derek Horn,
our Application Frameworks Evangelist,
and look at our excellent documentation.
Go to the iPhone Dev Center.